---
title: An Idea for a Role Playing Game
date: 2016-03-16
draft: true
categories: [software]
tags: [games, design]
---

I've just read an article in The Atlantic, When a Video-Game World Ends (http:/
/www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2016/01/when-a-video-game-world-ends/
423360/?single_page=true). It made me wonder whether it would be fun to have an
MMO where the story starts in a dystopian world, probably post-apocolypse, and
players find relics through archeological digs with the goal of bringing back
past civilizations or building new ones with the relics as their foundation.
<!--more-->

## What Makes a Game Fun
I wonder what conflicts could ensue, how could information from the past be
used, interpreted, misinterpreted and abused as players work together and
against other groups to bring some kind of hope or glory to their otherwise
meager existence.

Where do players start and what are they doing? Are they like Star Wars bounty
hunters, or merely waiting tables in a dusty cantina on the Outer Rim? How do
events unfold to open opportunities for players to get out of a mundane life
and on the path to achievement, hope and glory?

What did Sony do right before they changed Star Wars Galaxy to emphasize combat?
What attracted players to the original and made them revolt from the redesigned
game? According to [Remembering the Beautifully Boring MMO Star Wars Galaxy]
(https://killscreen.com/articles/
remembering-the-beautifully-boring-mmo-star-wars-galaxies/), the key to its
original success was that players weren't forced into combat roles. They could
fulfil any combination of over 40 different jobs, including politician, chef,
musician, tailor and image designer. Players could run cities or create items
to help other players. One could also open a shop or an entire shopping mall.
These are the kinds of roles filled by non-player characters in other MMOs.

The [Star Wars Galaxy](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/SWG_Wiki) has a [professions
tree](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Professions_(pre-NGE)) that represents the
state of affairs before the New Game Enhancements (NGE). The professions are
split into several categories:

- Basic Professions:
  - [Artisan](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Artisan)
  - [Brawler](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Brawler)
  - [Entertainer](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Entertainer_(pre-NGE))
  - [Marksman](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Marksman)
  - [Medic](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Medic_(pre-NGE))
  - [Politician](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Politician)
  - [Scout](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Scout)

Each of the Basic professions has an elite version with one or more specializations:

- Elite Artisan
  - Architect
  - Armorsmith
  - Chef
  - Droid Engineer
  - Merchant
  - Shipwright
  - Tailor
  - Weaponsmith
- Elite Brawler
  - Fencer
  - Pikeman
  - Swordsman
  - Teras Kasi Artist
- Elite Entertainer
  - Dancer
  - Image Designer
  - Musician
- Elite Marksman
  - Carbineer
  - Pistoleer
  - Rifleman
- Elite Medic
  - Doctor
- Elite Scout
  - Creature Handler
  - Ranger

These six professions are in the Hybrid category:

- Bio-Engineer
- Bounty Hunter
- Combat Medic
- Commando
- Smuggler
- Squad Leader

Here are the remaining profession categories and their associated specializations:

- Pilot
  - Alliance Starfighter Pilot
  - Imperial Navy Pilot
  - Freelance Pilot
- Force Sensitive
  - Combat Prowess
  - Crafting Mastery
  - Enhanced Reflexes
  - Heightened Senses
- Jedi
  - Force Defense
  - Force Enhancement
  - Force Healing
  - Force Powers
  - Jedi Padawan
  - Lightsaber

Each profession has various levels. For example, the Trader (Engineering)
profession has these levels:

- Engineering Fundamentals I-VI
- Engineering Essentials I-VI
- Engineering Expertise I-VI
- Engineering Mastery I-VI

### Artisan
The Artisan profession refers to a category of artisan schematics that benefit
from the skills Artisan Assembly and Artisan Experimentation. Specifically,
Artisan Assembly is a type of skill that affects assembly success when crafting
artisan schematics, and Artisan Experimentation is a type of skill that affects
experimentation when crafting artisan schematics.

There is a long list of [artisan schematics](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/
Artisan_schematic). The fall into the general categories of Clothing,
Components, Container, Firework, Fishing Pole, Food and Drink, Furniture,
Installation, Item, Pharmaceutical, Tool, and Vehicle.

## What are Some Not So Fun Aspects of Games
There are various aspects to the World of Warcraft (WoW), Guild Wars 2 (GW2)
and other games that detract from the experience. Here are a few of my thoughts.

### Learning Boss Mechanics
As a casual player of the World of Warcraft, I found it difficult to learn the
mechanics of battling the various bosses in the game. To defeat a boss, each
team member must possess a set of skills and abilities. They must also
choreograph their tactics (attacks and defenses). It's like learning a dance.

It's okay to read about the kinds of attacks that can be encountered, but it
would be nice to be able to practice outside of the actual battle. It's
important to know, based on one's role, what actions are expected so as not to
let down the team.

Part of the enjoyment of fighting a boss is learning the kinds of attacks it
will throw and what team members have to do to mitigate those attacks. Also, it
is important to learn the strengths and weaknesses of each boss. The most
aggressive players will find out soonest and can spread the word to other
players. However, all players might benefit from being able to enter an arena
or simulation where they can practice their role on their own time without the
need of engaging an entire team of skilled and unskilled players.

To prevent every boss encounter from being trivial, perhaps arenas become
available only after encountering a boss. Also, players can practice against
only those attacks they've experienced in battle. I think the arena should not
only provide sequences of attacks that emulate those seen in combat, but also
provide guidance on what to do in the face of such attacks. I really mean
*guidance* - not a simple set of instructions "do this, then that". There
should always be plenty of room for creativity - that is, more than one way to
respond.

### The Best Gear
If your game offers different kinds of gameplay, even just solo and team, don't
force players to participate in one or the other. Players should be able to
choose the play-experience they want and still be able to progress through the
game.

It seems to me, there is only one way to get the best gear in WoW, and that's
by participating in raids. There should be other avenues for the casual player
and for players who want to explore the world, but don't always want to wait
until they are excepted into a raiding party. Either that, or make a distinct
difference between raid gear and gear designed for solo players. Allow players
to have different equipment sets specialized for various kinds of play (solo,
raid, battleground, dueling). If a particular piece of armor or a weapon is
only available from a raid, make an equivalent armor piece or weapon available
to the solo or battleground player, so they aren't required to complete that
raid to get a piece of gear needed to get past a boss in a solo or dueling
situation.

### Equalizing the Playing Field
Guild Wars 2 has an interesting mechanic for equalizing the playing field
between real players and Non-Player Characters (NPCs). If your character is of
a higher level than the NPCs in an area, your character's level is
automatically reduced to a level more appropriate for the area.

I think it might be more interesting to have an NPC or group of NPCs pulled in
help from their "buddies". The number of buddies pulled in depends not only on
the level of the player, but also on how many additional players are involved
in the fight/encounter. If a level 20 character enters an area meant for level
1 players and starts a fight with an NPC, that player will suddenly find a
large party of low-level characters willing to fight with the NPC.

I suppose such a mechanic would have to be tempered to some degree. If the
point is to stop a low-level bully in a town from intimidating the residence,
it would be weird to allow the bully to have a posse the size of half the town
just to fight a very high-level player character. Perhaps, at some point the
bully just runs away. Still, it would be fun to see if this kind of gameplay
mechanic is fun.

### Loot
There must be a better way of getting stuff than gathering loot from defeated
enemies. Why should I be able to gather anything from a bunny, wolf, werewolf,
dire wolf, cat, leopard, lion, or moose other than a pelt and maybe other body
parts (perhaps for making poisons and remedies)?

## Look to Steampunk for Inspiration
I have a few [notes on Steampunk](/steampunk/steampunk-notes.html) which
contain a list of titles that are entertaining to consider. I'm sure many more
could be made.

There's a [Steampunk profession class/title generator](http://
www.seventhsanctum.com/generate.php?Genname=class). Here's some examples:

- Acolyte Atmospheric Flyer
- Air Archivist
- Air Spark
- Apothecary Musketeer
- Apothecary Scavenger
- Autosurgeon
- Chemical Temple Tinker
- Clock Artificer
- Clockwork Brain Miner
- Electroparatrooper
- Fog Aviator
- Gauss Sergeant
- Government Radiant Slayer
- Gyroautomator
- Heliomaster
- Hyperion Wheelwright
- Life Alchemist
- Navy Gyroscopic Flyer
- Navy Tesla Spiritualist
- Obsidian Smith
- Sprocketworker
- Subterranean Solar Apothecary
- Technimaster
- Tesla Bodyguard
- Tinker Archivist
- Aerosapper
- Arcane Turbosynthesist
- Armor Engineer
- Beast Builder
- Clockwork Grease Paratrooper
- Contraption Physician
- Cosmosynthesist
- Fighter Healer
- Gadgeteer Sanctum Pharmacist
- Graviautomator
- Grease Mariner
- Green Impulse Professor
- Gyroscopic Gadgeteer
- Lunar Light Surgeon
- Magnetismworker
- Metallonavigator
- Penumbra Alchemist
- Pharmacist Templar
- Pyrosmith
- Sentinel Blimp Hermit
- Stasis Hermit
- Sterling Healer
- Vale Technician
- Vigilante Factory Scavenger
- Wandering Lunar Builder
- Alchemobuilder
- Amphibious Blimp Mechanic
- Electric Sun Builder
- Electropriest
- Force Archivist
- Ghost Pharmacist
- Horde Apothecary
- Impulse Hunter
- Light Quake Mechanic
- Light Swordmeister
- Magician Technisoldier
- Master Geomistress
- Memory Healer
- Pharmacist Roamer
- Prodigal Clockwork Scholar
- Radiant Engineer
- Rogue Gadgeteer Taskmaster
- Royal Swordworker
- Spike Mercenary
- Steel Factory Guardian
- Technimaster
- Temple Automator
- Toxin Oracle
- Vigilante Aerohalberdier
- Weapon Naturalist

## A Journey of General Game Development

1. Have the Mindset of Determination and Passion. It will help you keep on
   track. You have a family to support, and goals to achieve.
2. Work on Games You Love. It will help keep you motivated.
3. Budget well. Choose carefully where you spend your money. Keep track of your
   money. Instead of just focusing on generating money, think of how to spend
   less.
4. Start Small. Think Big. Don't let the scarcity of funds and other resources
   hinder you. Look for workarounds and compromises to reach your goals and
   make the games you love.
5. Failure is Part of the Game. The more failures you have, the better you
   become. Fail fast and move forward. It's easy to get discouraged (technical
   glitches, or poeople telling you you're waisting your time). What matters is
   how you pick up yourself when it happens.
6. Make Friends. Look for friends and connections who are doing similar things.
   With social media, like Twitter, you can discuss work and collaborate with
   people around the world.
7. Keep YourSelf Updated. Technology gets replaced rapidly. The friends and
   strategies we have today may not be the same tomorrow. Keep up-to-date with
   industry-related information.
8. Invest time and, if possible, money in marketing. When the game is done,
   you'll want people to know about it, so invest at least time in marketing
   it. Come up with a launch strategy on how you can get the word out about
   your new game.
9. Don't Please Everyone. It's a simple road to failure. There will be
   compromises, but in the end it's your game. You have to believe in your game,
   your product.
10. Always Share What You Have and What You Know. In giving back to the
    community you will make new connections and new friends. You'll find that
    those you share with will, in turn, share their knowledge and experiences
    with you.
11. Create a prototype to validate your idea. Show it to your friends. If it's
    fun, then you have a good idea.

## Suggestions for a Successful Launch
A large part of a successful launch depends on what you do during the
devlopment stage weeks or months before you release it. Here is a guide,
[Launching an App on a TIght Budge](http://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/
ErickGarayblas/20131118/205060/Launching_an_app_on_a_tight_budget.php) by
[Erick Garayblas](http://digitalsinigang.tumblr.com/)

### Prior to Launch
1. Setup you own App Network. Garayblas has nine apps to date, and each network
   has the ability to push news to his players. Be sure you have something
   within your app that you can use to promote new products easily or simply
   push news and updates about your games. This will come in handy as your
   catalogue and use base grow.
2. Social Media. Use Twitter and Facebook to spread news. Open your social
   channels even before you start development. Use YouTube, as well.
3. The Power of Blogging. As indie developers, one of our advantages is that we
   can be more "personal" to our fans and players. One way to do that is by
   sharing our experiences through a blog. It doesn't matter if you post once a
   week or once a month, as long as you engage with your users, get feedback
   from them and keep them posted about what you're doing. You'll be able to
   grow your fan base by the time you launch your app/game.
4. Schedule Cross-Promotions. There are lots of indie developers who are
   willing to promote your app in exchange for a pormotion, so immerse yourself
   within the indie development community - a lot of them are active on
   Twitter - and connect with them. You will not only get support, but gain
   friends.
5. App Icon, Screenshots, Keywords and Product Description. There is really no
   guarantee to what works or what doesn't, but be sure you have eye-catching
   and convincing assets. Experiment with these whenever you push a new update
   and always measure the results.

### Following the Launch

1. PRMac. Garayblas finds that the press release services of PRMac produce, by
   far, the best results. It costs $20 to have news posted to as many as 800
   sites covering iOS and Mac software news.
2. Family and Friends. Word of mouth is still the best form of marketing, so if
   your friends and family can help you spread the word withing their own
   circles, you will have a head start.
3. YouTube. Create a trailer of your game and post it on YouTube. Free isn't
   enough to guarantee a download or convince a player to try your app. Some
   players prefer to see your app in action before trying it. Include the video
   in your press release, website and promote it to your social media channels.
4. Review sites. Submit your app to as many review sites as possible. The more
   reviews you can get, the better visibility you will have. Here's a [list of
   iOS app review sites](http://maniacdev.com/2012/05/ios-app-review-sites).
5. Schedule contests and promotions. Players love rewards and prizes. Arrange
   small contests either on Twitter or Facebook and reward your avid players.
   Promotions are also a great way to have your fans spread the word about your
   new game.
6. Share your work. Garayblas uses the [Corona SDK](https://coronalabs.com/) to
   build his iOS games. Once his game is launched, he [shares it with Corona
   Labs](https://coronalabs.com/community/share/). From the link, it looks like
   they want to hear about apps made with their SDK to showcase them on their
   site.

## References

-  [When a Video-Game World Ends](http://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2016/01/when-a-video-game-world-ends/423360/?single_page=true).
- [Remembering the Beautifully Boring MMO Star Wars Galaxy](https://killscreen.com/articles/remembering-the-beautifully-boring-mmo-star-wars-galaxies/).
- The Star Wars Galaxy [professions tree](http://swg.wikia.com/wiki/Professions_(pre-NGE)).
- [Launching an App on a TIght Budge](http://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/ErickGarayblas/20131118/205060/Launching_an_app_on_a_tight_budget.php) by [Erick Garayblas](http://digitalsinigang.tumblr.com/).
